(theme music playing)
We had lost some
very good men there.
Toye and Guarnere
had lost their legs there.
Guarnere--
Gordon was badly hit.
A number of other people
were killed.
It was a difficult
situation there.
I don't know
the exact amount of men
that got killed
in that,
but six, seven of 'em
were real close
friends of mine.
Skip Muck died.
And Eugene Roe
came to me,
about 10 minutes
after he was killed,
and he wanted me
to see if I wanted
to go look at him,
and I said, no, I wouldn't
be able to stand that.
So I didn't go look
at him.
After Bastogne,
we went to Haguenau.
There was another push there.
We wanted to get some idea
what was across
the river there, what kind
of strength they had.
You have a feeling
you're gonna live
through the war.
You have a feeling
it's starting to ease off.
You can't account for it.
It's just a gut feeling,
but everybody had
that feeling--
"I believe I might be able
to live through,"
so walk carefully,
take care of yourself.
(distant explosions)
Webster:
The 101st Airborne
had been made famous
by what it did
in the Battle of the Bulge.
Newspapers called them
"The Battered Bastards
of Bastogne."
They'd been through
hell on earth
and were now pulling into
the comparative paradise
of Haguenau,
the sounds of the war
still coming from just
across the river.
I had missed
Bastogne.
All I knew was
what I'd read
and heard around
the replacement depot--
that we had broken
the back of the enemy
and the war
would soon be over.
Thanks for the lift.
When I was finally able
to rejoin Easy Company,
they looked nothing
like the heroes
who had just helped
win the war.
George Luz!
Yeah?
It's me.
Oh, come on, I haven't
been gone that long.
Jesus.
Yes, you have.
Now look
what I've found.
Hey, guys.
Sergeant Martin.
What do you want,
Private?
Oh, I'm sorry, sir.
My name's David Webster.
I just got back from
the hospital.
Good for you.
Where's the rest
of the guys?
This is everybody.
Oh, come on,
Sergeant Martin.
This can't be everybody.
What about, uh,
Hoobler?
Where's he?
Lieutenant Foley,
2nd Platoon, lost more
guys than we did.
They're really
short-handed.
Yeah, right.
Report to 2nd, Webster.
They'll find
a place for you.
Next truck up, Webster,
you'll find 2nd. Move.
Hey, guys.
Some lieutenant told me
to report to 2nd.
Your name's Jackson,
right?
That's right.
Who's leading
the platoon?
Sergeant Malarkey is.
What, no officers?
I guess you didn't hear.
No. What's that?
They're making
Malarkey a lieutenant.
He's on the fast track now.
Really?
That's great.
Yeah, isn't it?
Yeah.
Jackson, help me up,
will you?
So, uh, you come
from the hospital?
Yeah.
Must've liked
that hospital,
'cause we left Holland
four months ago.
Well, I wasn't there
the whole time.
There was rehabilitation,
then the replacement depot.
Well, I'm sure you tried
to bust out and help us
in Bastogne, Web.
I don't know how
I would have done that.
That's funny,
'cause Popeye found a way.
So did Alley, right,
back in Holland?
And Guarnere and--
Yeah, where is Guarnere?
He still your platoon
sergeant?
No.
Man: Let's go!
He got hit.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah, Bill got hit.
Blew his whole
leg off.
Man:
1st Platoon,
moving out!
Spread out.
Hold along this line
till I figure out
where we're going.
Sarge.
(explosions)
What's the matter
there, Webster?
Nervous in the service?
No, no, I'm fine,
Sarge.
Why don't you go talk
to Captain Speirs,
make sure he wants
you with us.
Captain Speirs?
What happened
to Captain Winters?
He's running the whole
battalion now. Go.
Webster:
So Easy Company
had a new CO
to go along with
all the other new faces.
The guys I knew
were either gone
or very different
from what I remembered.
I was a veteran of D-Day
and Market Garden
and had been
with the company
since its formation,
but now, because
I had missed Bastogne,
I was treated
as a replacement
and felt like I was
starting all over again.
Hey, look who it is.
Nice digs, huh, Lip?
Yeah.
Sergeant Lipton?
Hey, look what I found.
Feeling all right?
There you go.
He's got pneumonia.
I'm sorry to hear that.
What are you sorry about?
He's alive.
He's got a couch,
a goddamn blanket,
snug as a bug.
Yeah.
Sergeant Malarkey said
to check with the CO
if I should be
in 2nd Platoon.
Have a seat, Webster.
We'll get you situated.
(distant explosions)
How long have you
been sick?
Long enough.
He wants us
to cross the river.
Yeah, I bet
that water's cold.
Should be able
to get you some boats.
Had to be a full moon.
So much for
the cover of darkness.
It's gonna leave
the patrol exposed.
Is this the company CP
for Easy?
Yes, sir.
As you were.
Lieutenant Jones
looking for Captain Speirs.
He's on his way, sir.
Why don't you sit down?
Can you get me
a coffee?
Would you like
a coffee, sir?
No, thank you.
All right.
What platoon
are you in?
Oh, we're about
to find that out.
You got any soap?
I need a shave.
I'll send some down.
You know what you're
gonna do for this?
I'm gonna let Speirs
handle it.
Right.
Captain Speirs,
sir, this is
Lieutenant Jones.
Listen, for Christ's sake,
will you go back in the back
and sack out?
There's some beds back there
with fresh sheets.
I will, sir.
I was just trying
to make myself useful, sir.
Listen up.
Regiment wants
a patrol for prisoners.
This one comes straight
from Colonel Sink,
so it's not my idea.
Since the river's
the main line
of resistance,
we're gonna
have to cross it
to get to them.
What do we need
to do?
There's a three-story
building on the enemy side,
up the embankment.
We know it's occupied.
You can have 15 men.
Think very hard
about who you want
to lead the patrol.
You'll need a lead scout,
a translator.
I've got
the entire battalion
on covering fire.
When?
Tonight, 0100.
Yes, sir.
Speirs, I want this one
to be as foolproof and
as safe as possible.
Yeah, don't take
any chances on this one.
We're too far along
for that.
Speirs, want to discuss
who might go along?
Who are you?
Lieutenant Jones, sir.
Right, our West Pointer.
Yes, sir.
When'd you graduate?
June 6th, sir.
June 6th
of last year?
D-Day, yes, sir.
(chuckles)
All right,
don't get hurt.
Sir, I'd like
to volunteer
for the patrol.
Speirs, talk to you
in an hour.
Yeah.
Lieutenant Jones.
We're short
an officer, so we--
you think a noncom
could lead this?
I can think of a few
possibilities.
Martin, Malarkey,
Grant?
Honestly, sir,
most of the NCOs
could use a rest.
Captain, request permission
to go on the patrol.
There's your answer.
No. You don't have
any experience.
Report to 2nd Platoon.
Yes, sir.
Tell--
tell Heffron,
Ramirez and McClung
they're going.
Yes, sir.
Sir, this is
Private Webster.
Sir, I'm Private Webster
from 1st Platoon.
I just got back
from the hospital
and Lieutenant Foley
told me to go to 2nd,
but Sergeant Malarkey said--
Fine, 2nd.
Take...
Lieutenant Jones.
...Lieutenant, OP Two.
Come on.
(gunshots)
Are there other officers
in the platoon?
No, sir.
Just Sergeant Malarkey.
But they tell me he's getting
a battlefield commission.
Maybe he'll be
assisting you, sir.
Who's that?
Webster?
That's right.
How are you doing,
Sergeant Kiehn?
Hi, Webster.
Hey, Sarge.
Hey, look what
we just scrounged.
We got some spuds.
Hey, OP Two--
this way?
Shit, go, go!
Shit, move!
Shit, they spotted us.
Is that it?
I don't know.
I think so.
Go, go, go!
Come on, come on,
come on, come on.
Get over here.
Man:
All clear!
Okay.
Ready?
Wait, wait.
It was Heffron,
McClung and--
Ramirez. Come on.
Right.
Hey, guys.
This taken?
Go ahead.
Sergeant, this is
Lieutenant Jones,
just assigned
to 2nd Platoon.
Malarkey, Platoon Sergeant.
Congratulations on
the battlefield commission.
The what?
They're making you
an officer, no?
Me? No.
You must be thinking
of 1st Sergeant Lipton.
My mistake.
So you're without
a platoon leader?
No, not anymore,
Lieutenant.
Right.
So you want
to introduce me
to the men?
Well, some are
sleeping downstairs.
The rest are right here.
Sergeant, a patrol's
being planned for tonight
0100 hours,
across the river.
Regiment wants POWs
for interrogation.
What's the situation?
Hey, Web.
What?
Come here.
I want to talk to you
for a second. Come here.
Why?
You want some coffee?
No.
15.
15 what?
Louies since D-Day.
Any mortars?
60s, out back.
Is this kid
out of high school yet?
He's out of West Point.
West Point?
Isn't that
where Ike went?
Yeah, he actually
graduated with his son.
Shit, so...
what do you know
about this patrol thing?
Uh, nothing.
Oh, come on, Web.
You gotta know something.
I don't.
Bullshit.
You were there, right?
At the CP?
This is a prisoner snatch,
right?
Hey, Chuck,
listen to this.
Come on, Webster,
spill it.
Captain Speirs
is to pick 15 men.
Mm-hmm.
Lieutenant Jones
wants to be one of them.
I say let the kid go.
He could use the experience.
Probably could
find 14 replacements
to help him out.
I take it this was
already an outpost
when you arrived?
Mm, there were some doggies
from the 79th Infantry,
but they left
in a hurry.
What's the report
on enemy activity?
Expect some flares,
a few mortars at night,
scattered 88s,
snipers during the day.
Yeah, we dodged some
mortars on our way in.
Mm.
They also got some
sort of railroad gun
back there,
shells about the size
of a deuce and a half.
Sounds like a freight train
when one comes over.
But they haven't
made any attempts
to cross the river?
No.
They have roofs
over their heads, sir,
just like us.
I don't think anybody wants
to do anything stupid
at this point, right?
Why are you
holding out on me?
I know you know.
Just give us
the names, Web.
Who?
There are three men
here in this room
that they think
should be on
the patrol.
Who?
Well, if I tell you,
you can't let on
that you know.
Your secret's safe, Web.
Who is it?
Yeah, Heffron.
Aw, shit.
McClung...
and you.
He want any other guys
from any other platoon?
No, no. I don't know.
Not that I know of.
Look, that's all I know,
I'm sorry.
So it's McClung,
Heffron and Ramirez.
I'll tell them.
I just need you to--
Listen up!
Got some bad news.
There is a patrol
set for tonight.
And so far,
Speirs wants McClung--
We know.
Yeah, we just fucking heard.
Webster here told us.
(phone rings)
Easy, White.
Yep.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
All right, out.
The PX rations
just came in,
including winter shoe pacs.
Beautiful.
Yeah, finally, right?
Good of 'em, now we're
in a nice, warm house.
Also, we get showers.
Mm.
(explosion)
All right, let's move!
Clear it out!
Move, move!
Incoming!
Come on, come on,
come on, go!
Stay down!
Stay low, stay low!
(laughing)
Showers, let's go,
come on.
(explosion)
Man: Somebody's been hit!
Man #2: Where?
What happened?
Casualty.
Who is it?
Bill Kiehn.
I just left him.
I was on my way back.
Webster:
In war, soldiers
sometimes die
in the fever pitch
of a firefight
or by artillery
when they're huddled
in a foxhole.
Bill Kiehn, a Toccoa man,
was killed
because he was carrying
a sack of potatoes
from one building
into another--
in the wrong place
at the wrong time.
Christenson,
Jackson...
He was dead
before Doc Roe even heard
the call for a medic.
Get him out of here,
will you?
Hey, let's go.
Let's get out of here.
Yeah, okay.
Did you know him well?
No, not really.
McClung.
Thanks.
Malarkey.
(speaks indistinctly)
...Jackson, Wynn, Liebgott,
Powers and Webster.
All right?
2nd Platoon, on me.
All right, I'm leading
this patrol.
The CO wants Grant,
Liebgott, Wynn,
Jackson, Shifty
from 3rd Platoon,
and Webster.
They want anyone from 1st?
No.
Is there anyone
they don't want
from 2nd?
Jesus Christ.
That list sounds
like everybody to me.
It's always 2nd Platoon.
I swear to God,
if we were down to three
guys, they'd still
want us for it.
I can't believe
they're gonna make
Malarkey lead it.
Christ, he only lost
his five best friends.
What the fuck's
he gotta live for?
Has it been a long time
since your last shower,
Professor?
Come on.
Man:
Is it hot water
or cold?
Man: Hurry up, will ya?
Man #2: All right.
I guess I don't really
need a shower.
I don't either.
Lieutenant.
Yeah?
You still want
to get your ODs dirty?
Of course.
I was just thinking,
Sergeant Malarkey's
really in no condition
to be on this patrol.
And maybe if you offered,
you could go in his place,
being that you are
an officer.
No, they want someone
with experience.
The guys they picked
have plenty of that.
Webster:
Lieutenant Jones wanted
to experience combat
before the war
was over.
Don Malarkey had been
on the front lines
every time Easy Company
had seen action
since D-Day.
If it was possible
for them to switch places
for the patrol,
it would be a small
moment of justice,
as welcome as a hot shower
and a fresh uniform.
The decision, though,
was not theirs to make.
God damn it, Johnny,
you're breaking my heart,
I'm telling you.
Come on, George,
just give me,
I don't know,
10, 15 bars.
Here you go.
Juicy Fruit, happy?
We just got a report
of movement.
1st Sergeant Lipton
wants you to lay a few
bazooka rounds
into a house
across the river.
You'd think we could get
at least one Hershey bar.
Come on, Luz,
you're 1st Platoon
at heart.
Jesus, Cobb,
there's not enough.
Whoa, Hershey bars!
Jesus Christ.
Wait your turn,
Liebgott.
Who are they for?
Not you, Lieb.
Oh, come on,
George, one bar.
No, there's not enough
to go around!
Captain Speirs here?
Down by the river, sir.
Perconte:
Hey, Big Mouth,
give the kid
a Hershey bar, huh?
You gotta be shittin' me!
Look who it is.
What's up, guys?
I like what you did
with the place, George.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I did good, huh?
How you feeling?
As long as you keep
your hands off my ass,
I'll be fine.
Have a Hershey's.
Thanks.
Hey, he gets a fucking
Hershey bar?
Well, he got shot
in the ass.
Did I tell you
to stick your big ass
out in the wind?
No, but I expect a little
sympathy from you.
Right?
I should rub it for you?
Hey, can you believe
this guy?
Try to get him
out of the fucking war,
he comes straight back.
Yeah, well, that's not
what I heard.
I head the Krauts
are finished.
Yeah, well,
just to make sure,
we've got to row across
the fucking river tonight,
grab a few
and ask 'em in person.
Are you kidding me?
Wish I was.
Welcome back, Frank.
Oh, Jesus,
that reminds me, Web.
I need you to run these
to OP Two for me--
grenade launchers for
the night patrol, huh?
Any day now, Web.
There you go.
Hey, you know what?
Send these too.
Hey, hey, hey.
You been working out?
Did you hear what
happened on D Company's
patrol last night?
What?
Replacement lieutenant
blew his foot off,
stepped on a Schu-mine.
Fresh in from West Point.
Had to come back
empty-handed.
No shit.
Maybe he's a friend
of yours, Lieutenant.
Cobb:
Hey, Vest, what you got
in there?
More Hershey bars
and Lucky Strikes
for you rear echelon fucks
to hoard, huh?
Hey, hey, Cobb,
with the mouth, please.
The kid's just trying
to do his job, all right?
Jesus Chr-- you know what?
To hell with it.
Count 'em up, Vest.
I gotta go blast this house.
You happy now?
You coming, Perco?
Make yourself useful,
watch this shit for me.
Web, you come with me.
Sergeant, is Captain Speirs
gonna be where you're headed?
Same vicinity, yeah.
All right,
then I'll join you.
Where are we going?
To the house
I gotta blast.
Captain Winters
gonna be with him?
Jesus, what--?
I don't know.
Maybe.
Then I'm coming too.
All right, come on,
guys, please.
I've been here
all fucking day.
Give me a bar.
I'm supposed
to watch these.
You don't even smoke
cigarettes, damn it.
I got a wounded ass.
Winters:
Intelligence give you
any information on the CP?
Third house
on the left.
As soon as our men
are back in the boats,
I want a Quad 50
opening up.
Captain Winters.
About the patrol--
I feel that I should go
on the patrol, sir.
I know I could use
the experience.
Denied.
Anything else?
You're not gonna
lead that patrol,
Lieutenant Jones.
Permission to speak, sir.
Go on, Lieutenant.
It looks like
Sergeant Malarkey
could use a break, sir.
I've discussed it with him
and he said that
he did not mind
if I took his place
on the patrol.
That was nice
of him.
Captain Winters.
Yes?
I'd really like to be
on that patrol, sir.
If it's true
the Krauts are finished,
I haven't really done
anything
except deliver mail and
type morning reports.
Absolutely.
Thank you,
Captain.
He's got a point
about Sergeant Malarkey.
Yeah, a point.
Fine, you can go.
There'll be a briefing,
CP, 1700.
Yes, sir.
So who do you have
in mind
leading this thing,
if not Malarkey?
Grant:
Come on,
he can't be leading.
I'm not sure
what they decided.
No way.
Not on his first day.
Well, do you see
any other officer here?
What?
They call you guys too?
So who's in charge
of this bullshit?
Grant:
No, he ain't.
Well, if he ain't,
it's you, Chuck,
or Shifty or Mo.
Well, that'd be better.
10-hut!
Jesus.
At ease.
Gentlemen.
Sir.
As you can see,
we've assembled
15 of you here
for this prisoner snatch
tonight, 0100.
Just a couple
of points--
secured four rubber boats
to get you across the river.
Lieutenant Jones here
is the ranking officer,
and he'll be along
as an observer.
Sergeant Martin here
will lead the patrol
in Sergeant Malarkey's
place.
The whole battalion
will be covering
your withdrawal.
We've identified targets.
We've planned fire for 'em.
We hear these whistles--
we open up.
So don't blow 'em till
you're back in the boats
with your prisoners.
And if the house
turns out to be
empty, sir?
It won't.
But in any case,
we know it's an outpost
and want it destroyed,
so you have to lay
some demo on a time delay.
You have to move fast
but carefully.
Put a perimeter
around the house.
Once that's in place,
get your rifle grenades
in the first-floor window.
Get your
assault team in quick.
Okay, good, understood.
Remember, it's about
prisoners.
Don't pop the first thing
that moves.
Clear?
All:
Yes, sir.
Good.
Picked your
assault team?
McClung, Sisk,
Cobb, Garcia,
and Webster
as translator.
The rest of you guys--
a base of fire
with Sergeant Grant.
You speak German,
right, Webster?
Yeah, a little bit.
Good.
That's my team, sir.
Questions?
All:
No, sir.
Good.
Good luck.
Thank you, sir.
10-hut!
As you were.
Carry on.
A little German?
His German's
as good as mine.
Hey, Jackson,
you need this.
Thanks.
Can you believe
that guy?
Webster, tries to get out
of everything.
Whatever.
I want four men
on each block.
Four men to go in,
four men on the left
flank,
four on the right.
Sir, sir.
Yes?
Liebgott and I--
we both speak German.
Yeah?
You said 15 men.
There's 16 of us,
including two
translators.
Well, fine.
Hey, Liebgott,
you want to sit
this one out?
Yes, sir.
Thanks, buddy.
Thank you, sir.
...or the two fives?
Yeah.
Okay, you men going
on patrol-- Skinny--
nothing rattles.
Nothing shines.
No helmets.
Lieutenant?
Thank you.
You set for tonight?
I'm ready.
Those Krauts are gonna
catch some hell.
So I hear.
I'm not personally
going in.
It's Martin, right?
Yeah, Martin and McClung.
I'm supposed to
stay in the rear
and give them cover.
It's the best
place to be.
(explosions)
Webster:
15 men crossing a river
to capture prisoners
from a German
observation post.
Getting back safely
could be successfully
accomplished
in as little
as 10 minutes.
The same mission
could be met with disaster
and result in nothing more
than 15 Americans killed
or wounded
in action.
Those of us
who had seen combat before
put that
out of our minds.
Those who hadn't
probably thought
of little else
as we waited
for darkness.
Martin: Any problems?
Christenson: No problems.
It's secured to the tree.
No sign of any AP mines.
Let's go.
Webster, come on.
(quietly)
Keep it steady.
Oh, shit.
I can't swim!
Garcia, grab Sisk.
Okay, keep going.
Come on, stay focused.
Come on, come on.
Use the rope.
Come on.
Cutters.
Good.
To the side.
Let's go, come on.
Clear.
Easy now.
Powers, go.
Go, McClung.
McClung, move up.
In twos, up.
Powers, Wynn,
secure the left flank.
Lieutenant, take Grant
and Heffron,
secure the right perimeter
and the crossroads. Clear?
Security out, go.
Move.
Let's go.
(gunshot)
Jackson, hold on.
Let's go.
Jackson, wait.
(screaming)
(shouting in German)
Hande hoch!
Put it down!
Put it down
and keep your hands out
where I can see them!
(shouting in German)
Martin:
Keep those Krauts quiet!
Jackson.
Vest, take care of him.
Ramirez, watch Vest.
Let's go, Webster,
let's go.
Split 'em up, come on.
(Webster speaking German)
Webster, check 'em
for weapons.
Webster:
I'm gonna disarm them.
Cover me, McClung.
Keep those men quiet!
McClung, cover him.
Webster, take the charges,
prime it and hide it.
Shut up, you two.
And pick him up!
McClung, these two
are gonna carry
the wounded Kraut.
Webster, tell 'em.
Bring the wounded man.
I said shut up.
Ramirez, pick up Jackson.
We're moving out.
Come on,
where are you going?
You, move!
Everybody moves out
on my command!
Are you ready?
Shut up, you!
Come on, we all
go together.
(man speaking German)
Let's go, move!
Move out!
Move!
(rapid gunfire)
Webster, come on.
Martin:
Powers, fall back!
We're moving out!
McClung, keep those
prisoners' heads down
and let's keep moving!
Wynn, fall back!
We're moving out,
let's go!
We're falling back!
Covering fire!
Heffron, I want you
to fall back now!
Let's go!
Move out!
Get back to the boat.
I'll cover. Go!
Keep those men moving!
Lieutenant,
take the whistle!
Let's go!
Go!
Move it, Webster!
Let's get to the boats!
Martin:
Let's go!
Stay low, keep moving!
Keep moving the men!
Fall back
to the boats now!
Fall back!
Jesus Christ, come on,
blow the goddamn whistle!
(blowing whistle)
Jones:
Everybody, get in the boats
right now!
Martin:
To the boats, keep moving!
Come on, get in the boats!
Come on, move!
Let's go, Shifty!
I'm gonna shoot you,
you fucking kraut!
Vest, shoot him,
and we'll have to
come back for more.
You, in the boat, now!
You get up,
you Kraut piece of shit!
Jones:
In the boats!
Quick, get in the boats,
come on!
Martin:
Let's go! We're moving out!
Let's go!
Let's get these boats
in the water!
Start pulling!
You're okay, Jackson.
Keep pulling!
Come on, keep going,
come on!
Perconte, come on,
let's go.
Where's the medic?
(all shouting)
Jones:
Everybody off the boats!
Let's go!
Take cover!
We got wounded,
come on!
Popeye, get
the Krauts back there
and shake 'em down.
Move, move, move!
McClung, McClung!
Get onto the company CP,
let 'em know what we got.
Martin:
Shut up!
Web, Web.
I can't do this.
Move off.
Webster, stay with him.
Hey, Shifty, watch Vest.
Sir, I'm going
to get a medic.
You got this?
Yeah.
(men continue shouting)
Man:
Get his legs.
Jackson, listen to me.
You have to calm down,
or we can't help you.
Settle down.
Vest:
He's gonna fucking die.
Jackson, look at me.
Don't listen to him.
Look at me.
You're gonna be fine.
Everything's gonna be okay.
(speaking German)
I'm gonna kill you, Kraut!
Keep still.
Be calm, buddy.
Everything's fine.
(whimpering)
God damn it!
Vest, no!
(all shouting)
You think you're
out of this war?
You ain't out of shit!
What do you think
you're doing?
We're not gonna
get more prisoners
because you killed one!
Private, Private.
Listen to me. Private.
He's gonna fucking die!
Hey, sit down!
Jackson, stay calm.
The medic is coming.
They're on their way.
Where the fuck
is the medic?
Doc is on his way.
You'll be okay.
All right, Jackson,
you got the doc.
You're okay, Jackson.
Take it easy.
Shh, okay, okay.
Okay.
Light-- I need some light.
Give me some light.
All right,
look at the flame.
Jackson, look at
the flame.
Okay, that's good.
(whimpers)
All right, let's get him
out of here.
Guys, come on,
help the doc move him.
(sobbing)
I don't want to die.
Hey, hey, it's okay.
Hey, it's okay, Jackson.
Let's get him out of here.
I don't want to die.
Take it easy.
Please help me.
It's okay.
Hey, it's okay.
You're all right.
Jackson!
Oh, my god.
Jackson, you're not
gonna die.
You're not gonna die.
I need you to hang on!
Jackson!
(explosions and gunfire
continue)
Webster:
Eugene Jackson
was 20 years old.
He'd lied about his age
when he joined the army
at 16.
His family,
I'm sure,
got a telegram
from the War Department,
saying he died a hero
on an important mission
that would help
win the war.
In fact,
Eugene lost his life
on a stretcher
in a dank basement
in Haguenau,
crying out in agony,
while his friends
looked on helplessly.
He was just one more
casualty in a war
that was supposed to be
all but over.
Winters:
Did they put that
in the report on the ADA?
We're working on it.
How long are you
gonna keep...
(speaks German)
Keep moving, go on.
Get up on the truck.
Up, up.
Status?
Private Jackson took
a grenade fragment
from the enemy OP.
It was his own
grenade.
He died
of his wounds, sir.
Any others?
No, sir.
Well executed.
It's not your fault.
(truck engine starts)
Talk to your men.
Carry on.
Thank you, sir.
(distant gunshots)
We heard you got
two prisoners.
Good work.
Jackson's dead.
Yeah, we heard.
Yeah, well, they want
another patrol tonight.
(explosions)
(man moaning loudly)
What are you doing,
Cobb?
You leave someone
on the bank?
Yeah.
Yeah, we did.
It's the third
prisoner
that was too far gone
to bring back.
Maybe we should put him
out of his misery.
Fuck his misery.
I can't listen to it
anymore.
Who's got a light?
Heffron:
Here, sir.
Whatcha looking at,
Webster?
Yeah, that's what
I thought, college boy.
Are you drunk,
trooper?
Leave me alone.
Answer the question.
Yes, sir,
I am drunk, sir.
Drunk,
sick and tired
of fucking patrols,
taking orders.
Hey, Cobb, shut up.
It's boring, okay?
Taking his side,
Johnny?
Yeah, I am.
So he knows
we lost a man?
Yeah, he knows.
He also knows
you picked up two
prisoners who talked.
About what?
OB, supply trouble,
Hitler's favorite color.
I don't know, none of it
gets us across the river.
What's the point?
(sighs)
Honestly?
Sink's been on the phone
all day, bragging it up.
I think he's just
showing off now.
I don't know, Dick.
I don't know what
to tell you.
You gave him
a successful patrol.
Now he wants two.
Successful.
Sir, the men
are mustered.
If you want me
to brief 'em, I'm gonna.
It's the same roster
as last night.
Well, mostly.
'Evening, gents.
At ease.
Y'all did
a damn fine job
on a tough
mission last night.
And I wish you good luck
tonight, 'cause
I'll be expecting
more of the same.
Have you briefed
the men?
Just on our way, sir.
All right.
Make damn sure
you remind 'em
how proud I am
of what they did.
Yes, sir.
So I'll brief 'em now,
sir?
No.
No, I'll do it.
Sarge, they're
on their way in.
10-hut!
Martin.
Sir.
At ease.
This everybody, Grant?
Sir.
You men did
an excellent job
last night.
I'm-- I'm proud.
I'm proud.
I just saw Colonel Sink.
He's proud too.
In fact, he's so proud,
he wants you to do
another patrol
across the river
tonight.
Any moment now,
the outpost we hit
last night
will go up
in flames, Martin?
Yes, sir.
It means we'd have
to venture farther
into town this time.
Captain Speirs,
you have the map, please?
Yeah.
Sergeant Grant.
We have enemy movement
here and here,
which means this is our
new house target here.
We recovered
all the boats,
so we'll be setting off
from the same place
we did last night.
We're not changing
the plan any, sir?
No, the plan
is the same.
Uh, it will be
0200 hours
instead of 0100.
Is that clear?
Yes, sir.
Okay, good.
Because, uh,
I want you all
to get a full night's
sleep tonight.
Which means
in the morning
you will report to me
that you made it
across the river
into German lines
but were unable to secure
any live prisoners.
Understand?
Yes, sir.
Good.
Look sharp
for tomorrow.
We're moving
off the line.
Did I fucking
hear that right?
A good man.
(men laughing)
Moving off the line.
(chattering)
Nixon:
It's a whole new way
to fight a war.
Don't bother
writing this up.
I'll take care of it.
I might actually enjoy it.
Okay.
Think you might be
onto something, Dick.
Lieutenant Jones.
Sir.
Join us
at the company CP.
1st Sergeant Lipton.
Sir.
Your honorable discharge
as an enlisted man.
Just keep 'em
coming, Luz.
Winters:
And battlefield commission
as a 2nd Lieutenant.
Look what we
have here, boys.
Hey, pal.
Congratulations, Carwood.
Thank you, sir.
Nixon: Lip, congratulations.
Thanks.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
Welcome back, sir.
That's Harry to you.
Congratulations.
Thanks, Harry.
Nixon:
Harry, I didn't expect
to see you this soon.
I figured you'd be
nursing that scratch
for another month or two.
Did you miss me,
Lewis?
Lieutenant Jones?
The regiment
has seen fit
to promote you
to 1st Lieutenant.
They want you
on staff up there.
Congratulations.
Good luck.
Thank you, sir.
Winters:
Dismissed.
Looks like you lost
another platoon leader,
huh, Web?
(chattering)
Webster:
So a second patrol
never happened.
Word was, Captain Nixon
wrote up a bogus report
and regiment
never got wise.
As we pulled out
of Haguenau,
many of us in Easy Company
felt that a corner
had been turned
and we all might
make it home alive.
Nixon:
So we'll know more
as soon as we get
closer to the line.
Oh, before I forget,
Colonel Sink's
a bit unhappy
with the appearance
of your uniform.
He says it's not
befitting to your rank.
Oak leaves.
Congratulations, Major.
Gentlemen, we're ready.
I'll drive.
Jones: Sergeant Malarkey.
Good luck, sir.
Appreciate it.
Sergeant Martin.
Lieutenant.
Good work.
Thank you, sir.
Good to have you along.
Good luck, men.
Here.
Webster:
I wondered
if people back home
would ever know
what it cost the soldiers
to win this war.
In America, things were
already beginning to look
like peacetime.
The standard of living
was on the rise.
Race tracks
and nightclubs
were booming.
You couldn't
get a hotel room
in Miami Beach,
it was so crowded.
How could anyone
ever know
of the price
paid by soldiers
in terror, agony
and bloodshed
if they'd never been
to places like Normandy,
Bastogne or Haguenau?
(theme music playing)